Add documentation for enumType mapping with PHP backed enums (#12412)
doctrine/doctrine2: docs/en/reference/basic-mapping.rst

:doc:`Read more about TypedFieldMapper <typedfieldmapper>`.

.. _reference-enum-mapping:

Mapping PHP Enums
-----------------

.. versionadded:: 2.11

Doctrine natively supports mapping PHP backed enums to database columns.

> A backed enum is a PHP enum that has a scalar type (``string`` or ``int``)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A backed enum is a PHP enum that the same scalar type (``string`` or ``int``)
```

the column ``type`` explicitly.

Storing Collections of Enums
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can store multiple enum values in a single column by combining ``enumType``
with a collection column type: ``json`` or ``simple_array``.

.. note::

    Automatic type inference does not apply to collection columns. When the
    PHP property is typed as ``array``, Doctrine cannot detect the enum class.
    You must specify both ``type`` and ``enumType`` explicitly.

.. literalinclude:: basic-mapping/EnumCollectionMapping.php
    :language: php

With ``json``, the values are stored as a JSON array (e.g. ``["hearts","spades"]``).
With ``simple_array``, the values are stored as a comma-separated string
(e.g. ``hearts,spades``).

In both cases, Doctrine converts each element to and from the enum
automatically during hydration and persistence.

.. tip::

    Use ``json`` when enum values may contain commas, when you need to store
    int-backed enums (as it preserves value types), or when the column also
    stores complex/nested data structures. Prefer ``simple_array`` for a
    compact, human-readable storage of string-backed enums whose values do not

>     contain commas.

Reviewer: Is it possible to get a Postgres `jsonb` column? If yes, leveraging json operator might be a reason to favor `json` over `simple_array` even when the values are plain strings.

Author: Hi @greg0ire you are right, with Doctrine, you can obtain a `jsonb` column in PostgreSQL by passing `options: ['jsonb' => true]` on a column of type `json`. This allows you to use PostgreSQL’s native JSON operators (`->`, `->>`, `@>`, `?`, etc.) to directly query the contents of the column.

This is an additional argument in favor of `json` over `simple_array`, even when the values are just simple strings
